Add dagster-elt (#16681)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/integrations/embedded-elt.mdx

---
title: "Dagster Embedded ELT"
description: Lightweight ELT with Dagster
---

# Dagster Embedded ELT

This package provides a framework for building ELT pipelines with Dagster through helpful pre-built assets and resources. It is currently in experimental development, and we'd love to hear your feedback.

> This package currently includes a single implementation using <a href="https://slingdata.io">Sling</a> provides a simple way to sync data between databases and file systems.

Reviewer: "We plan on adding additional embedded ELT tool integrations in the future"

To create an Asset that syncs between two connections, you can use the <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="build_sling_asset" /> factory.

---

## Setting up a Sling Resource

A Sling Resource is a Dagster Resource that contains references to both a Source Connection and a Target Connection. Sling is versatile in what a source or destination can represent. You can provide arbitrary keywords to the <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingSourceConnection" /> and <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingTargetConnection" /> classes.

The types and parameters for each connection are defined by <a href="https://docs.slingdata.io/connections/database-connections">Sling's Connections</a>.

The simplest connection is a file connection, which can be defined as:

```python
from dagster_embedded_elt.sling import SlingSourceConnection
source = SlingSourceConnection(type="file")
```

Note that no path is required, as that is provided by the asset itself.

```python
asset_def = build_sling_asset(
    asset_spec=AssetSpec("my_file"),

>     source_straem=f"file://{path_to_file}",

Reviewer: typo here

---
title: "Dagster Embedded ELT"

> description: Lightweight ELT with Dagster

Reviewer 2: Can you add some more info here? Maybe even just use the first sentence in the intro for this - it's a good, short and sweet description of what this is.

---

# Dagster Embedded ELT

This package provides a framework for building ELT pipelines with Dagster through helpful pre-built assets and resources. It is currently in experimental development, and we'd love to hear your feedback.

> This package currently includes a single implementation using <a href="https://slingdata.io">Sling</a> provides a simple way to sync data between databases and file systems.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This package currently includes a single implementation using <a href="https://slingdata.io">Sling</a>, which provides a simple way to sync data between databases and file systems.
```

We plan on adding additional embedded ELT tool integrations in the future.

> ## Relevant APIs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---

## Relevant APIs
```

[1] H2s should be preceded by a rule

| Name                                                                        | Description                                                                    |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| <PyObject module="dagster_embedded_elt.sling" object="build_sling_asset" /> | The core Sling asset factory for building syncs                                |
| <PyObject module="dagster_embedded_elt.sling" object="SlingResource" />     | The Sling Resource used for handing credentials to databases and object stores |

---

> ## Getting Started

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Getting started
```

[2] Headings use sentence casing

> To get started with `dagster-embedded-elt` and Sling, first familiarize yourself with <a href="https://docs.slingdata.io/sling-cli/running-tasks">Sling's documentation</a>

Reviewer 2: What about the docs should they be familiarizing themselves with? This might be nitpicky, but I think it's more _"Familiarize yourself with Sling by reading their docs"_ than _"Familiarize yourself with Sling's docs"_

This sentence is also missing ending punctuation.

> First, setup a <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingResource" /> which defines the source and destination credentials. The <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingResource" /> requires both a <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingSourceConnection" /> and a <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingTargetConnection" />.

Reviewer 2: You're doing this in the next section (`Setting up a Sling resource`) - why would it also be an instruction here?

Reading through this, I'm not totally sure what the purpose of the `Getting started` section is - is it to outline the steps the user will be taking in the rest of the guide?

> First, setup a <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingResource" /> which defines the source and destination credentials. The <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingResource" /> requires both a <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingSourceConnection" /> and a <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingTargetConnection" />.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, set up a <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingResource" /> which defines the source and destination credentials. The <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingResource" /> requires both a <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingSourceConnection" /> and a <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingTargetConnection" />.
```

Nit - `setup` is a noun but is being used as a verb here

You can provide either a connection string or a dictionary of connection parameters to each of these classes.

For details on what connection parameters Sling accepts for each integration, see the <a href="https://docs.slingdata.io/connections/database-connections">Sling Connections</a> page.

To create an Asset that syncs between two connections, you can use the <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="build_sling_asset" /> factory.

---

> ## Setting up a Sling Resource

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 1: Setting up a Sling resource
```
[2], and for sequential steps, prefix the heading with `Step N:` please!

> A Sling Resource is a Dagster Resource that contains references to both a Source Connection and a Target Connection. Sling is versatile in what a source or destination can represent. You can provide arbitrary keywords to the <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingSourceConnection" /> and <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingTargetConnection" /> classes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Sling resource is a Dagster resource that contains references to both a Source Connection and a Target Connection. Sling is versatile in what a source or destination can represent. You can provide arbitrary keywords to the <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingSourceConnection" /> and <PyObject module="dagster-embedded-elt.sling" object="SlingTargetConnection" /> classes.
```

`resource` doesn't need to be capitalized - it's not a proprietary term for us.

I'm also leaning towards `Source` and `Target Connection` not needing to be capitalized either. Sling uses these terms and they're not capitalized in their docs, so I think we should be consistent with their usage since those seem to be their terms.

The types and parameters for each connection are defined by <a href="https://docs.slingdata.io/connections/database-connections">Sling's Connections</a>.

The simplest connection is a file connection, which can be defined as:

```python
from dagster_embedded_elt.sling import SlingSourceConnection
source = SlingSourceConnection(type="file")
```

Note that no path is required, as that is provided by the asset itself.

```python
asset_def = build_sling_asset(
    asset_spec=AssetSpec("my_file"),
    source_stream=f"file://{path_to_file}",
    ...
)

```

> For database connections, you can provide a connection string or a dictionary of keyword arguments. For example, to connect to a SQLite database, you can provide an path to the database using the `instance` keyword, which is specified on the <a href="https://docs.slingdata.io/connections/database-connections/sqlite">Sqlite Connection</a> page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For database connections, you can provide a connection string or a dictionary of keyword arguments. For example, to connect to a SQLite database, you can provide a path to the database using the `instance` keyword, which is specified in [Sling's SQLite connection](https://docs.slingdata.io/connections/database-connections/sqlite) documentation.
```

Fixes a typo. I also updated this to use Markdown syntax for consistency, and to specifically state that the link goes to Sling's documentation. Less of a surprise for those who use screen readers.

```python
source = SlingSourceConnection(type="sqlite", instance="path/to/sqlite.db")
```

Here are some additional examples of database connections:

```python
source = SlingSourceConnection(
    type="postgres", host="localhost", port=5432, database="my_database",
    user="my_user", password=EnvVar("PG_PASS")
)

source = SlingSourceConnection(
    type="snowflake", host="hostname.snowflake", user="username",
    database="database", password=EnvVar("SF_PASSWORD"), role="role"
)
```

Similarily, you can define file/storage connections:

```python
source = SlingSourceConnection(
    type="s3", bucket="sling-bucket",
    access_key_id=EnvVar("AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID"),
    secret_access_key=EnvVar("AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY")
)

> ```

Reviewer 2: Two thoughts here:

1. We could be more specific about the examples that follow, like `The following example demonstrates Postgres and Snowflake database connections:`
2. Consider adding an `Examples` section at the end of the page, moving this there, and adding a link to it here. It shortens this section to just what users need to get started while still making reference info easily accessible.

> ## Creating a Sling Sync

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
---

## Step 2: Creating a Sling sync
```

[1] and [2], also applying sentence casing

> To create a Sling Sync, once you have defined your Resource, you can use the <PyObject module="dagster_embedded_elt.sling" object="build_sling_asset" /> factory to create an Asset.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a Sling sync, once you have defined your resource, you can use the <PyObject module="dagster_embedded_elt.sling" object="build_sling_asset" /> factory to create an asset.
```

These are not proprietary terms for us (I don't think Sling capitalizes `sync` either). As for `asset`, only `Software-defined Asset(s)` needs to be capitalized
